Prerequisites:

Ensure you have Java Runtime Environment (JRE) installed on your computer. You can download it from the official Oracle website.
Download the Project:

Download the Algorithm Simulator project files, which include the Java source code and any additional resources.
Import the Project (Optional):

If you're using an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) like Eclipse or IntelliJ, you can import the project into the IDE. Otherwise, you can skip this step and run the project using the command line.
Compile the Code (Skip if using IDE):

Open a terminal or command prompt.
Navigate to the directory containing the project files.
Compile the Java source code using the following command:

javac *.java
Run the Algorithm Simulator:

After compiling the code (or if you skipped step 4), run the simulator using the following command:
mathematica

java HomePage
Explore the Homepage:

The Algorithm Simulator will open, displaying the homepage with three main buttons: "Sorting," "Searching," and "Insertion/Deletion."
Choose a Category:

Click on the desired category button to explore the corresponding section:
"Sorting": Demonstrates various sorting algorithms like Bubble Sort, Insertion Sort, and Selection Sort.
"Searching": Explores fundamental searching algorithms like Linear Search and Binary Search.
"Insertion/Deletion": Focuses on basic insertion and deletion operations in an array.
Follow Instructions:

Depending on the selected category, you may be prompted to enter an array or perform specific actions.
Follow the on-screen instructions to interact with the simulation.
Observe the Steps:

The simulator will display step-by-step executions of the algorithms or operations, providing a visual representation of how they work.
Explore and Learn:

Play around with different inputs and observe how the algorithms and data structures behave in response.
Close the Simulator:

To exit the simulator, simply close the application window.
That's it! You have successfully used and run the Algorithm Simulator project. Enjoy exploring various algorithms and data structures through this interactive and educational tool.